blog post with september goals update (#1406)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2024-09-19-Project-Goals-Sep-Update.md

## Flagship goals

### Prepare Rust 2024 Edition (tracked in [#117])

[#117]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/117

The Rust 2024 edition is on track to be stabilized on Nightly by Nov 28 and to reach stable as part of Rust v1.85, to be released Feb 20, 2025.

Over the last month, all the "lang team priority items" have landed and are fully ready for release, including migrations and chapters in the [Nightly version of the edition guide](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/edition-guide/rust-2024/index.html):

* Changes to support new `impl Trait` defaults ([#117587], [#123432]; [read more here](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2024/09/05/impl-trait-capture-rules.html))
* Changes to support generators ([#123904][]).
* Changes to support stabilizing the "never type (`!`) ([#123748][]).

[#117587]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/117587
[#123432]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/123432
[#123904]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/123904
[#123748]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/123748

Overall:

> * [13 items](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?q=label%3AS-tracking-ready-for-edition+is%3Aclosed) are fully read ready for Rust 2024.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [13 items](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?q=label%3AS-tracking-ready-for-edition+is%3Aclosed) are fully ready for Rust 2024.
```

[#116]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/116

We have stabilized [extended `offset_of` syntax](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/128284) and [agreed to stabilize Pointers to Statics in Constants](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/128183). Credit to @dingxiangfei2009 for driving these forward. 💜

Implementation work proceeds for [arbitrary self types v2](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/44874#issuecomment-2314739657), [derive smart](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/125048) [pointer](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/129467), and [sanitizer support](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/128348).

RFL on Rust CI is implemented but still waiting on documented policy. The first breakage was detected (and fixed) in [#129416](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/129416). This is the mechanism working as intended, although it would also be useful to better define what to do when breakage occurs.

## Selected updates

### Begin resolving cargo-semver-checks blockers for merging into cargo (tracked in [#104])

[#104]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/104

> *@obi1kenobi has been working on laying the groundwork to enable manifest linting in their project. They have set up the ability to test how CLI invocations are interpreted internally, and can now snapshot the output of any CLI invocation over a given workspace. They have also designed the expansion of the CLI and the necessary Trustfall schema changes to support manifest linting. As of the latest update, they have a working prototype of manifest querying, which enables SemVer lints such as detecting the accidental removal of features between releases. This work is not blocked on anything, and while there are no immediate opportunities to contribute, they indicate there will be some in future updates.*

Reviewer 2: Just my opinion, large blocks of italics can be difficult to read. Would it be possible to leave these as normal text? I'm not sure if you had some intention here.

Author: No problem, I'll change from italics. Not sure why I did that.

### Stabilize features needed by Rust for Linux (tracked in [#116])

[#116]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/116

We have stabilized [extended `offset_of` syntax](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/128284) and [agreed to stabilize Pointers to Statics in Constants](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/128183). Credit to @dingxiangfei2009 for driving these forward. 💜

Implementation work proceeds for [arbitrary self types v2](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/44874#issuecomment-2314739657), [derive smart](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/125048) [pointer](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/129467), and [sanitizer support](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/128348).

> RFL on Rust CI is implemented but still waiting on documented policy. The first breakage was detected (and fixed) in [#129416](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/129416). This is the mechanism working as intended, although it is also clear that we need to better what to do when breakage occurs.

Reviewer 3: >..., although it is also clear that we need to better what to do when breakage occurs.

I think this is missing a word

Author: ```suggestion
RFL on Rust CI is implemented but still waiting on documented policy. The first breakage was detected (and fixed) in [#129416](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/129416). This is the mechanism working as intended, although it would also be useful to better define what to do when breakage occurs.
```

## Selected updates

### Begin resolving cargo-semver-checks blockers for merging into cargo (#104)

> *@obi1kenobi has been working on laying the groundwork to enable manifest linting in their project. They have set up the ability to test how CLI invocations are interpreted internally, and can now snapshot the output of any CLI invocation over a given workspace. They have also designed the expansion of the CLI and the necessary Trustfall schema changes to support manifest linting. As of the latest update, they have a working prototype of manifest querying, which enables SemVer lints such as detecting the removal of non-nightly, non-underscore-prefixed features between releases. This work is not blocked on anything, and while there are no immediate opportunities to contribute, they indicate there will be some in future updates.*

Reviewer 4: The technical details of "which features are considered public and stable" might be overwhelming and not interesting. The definition is even more complex than just "not nightly, not underscored" and it's subject to change if cargo ships explicit public/private dependencies and features.

Perhaps better to just say "accidental removal of features" and omit the feature selection criteria.
```suggestion
*@obi1kenobi has been working on laying the groundwork to enable manifest linting in their project. They have set up the ability to test how CLI invocations are interpreted internally, and can now snapshot the output of any CLI invocation over a given workspace. They have also designed the expansion of the CLI and the necessary Trustfall schema changes to support manifest linting. As of the latest update, they have a working prototype of manifest querying, which enables SemVer lints such as detecting the accidental removal of features between releases. This work is not blocked on anything, and while there are no immediate opportunities to contribute, they indicate there will be some in future updates.*
```

> ### Expose experimental LLVM features for automatic differentiation and GPU offloading (#109)

Author: ```suggestion
### Expose experimental LLVM features for automatic differentiation and GPU offloading (tracked in [#109])

[#109]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/104
```

*ZuseZ4 has been focusing on automatic differentiation in Rust, with their first two upstreaming PRs for the rustc frontend and backend merged, and a third PR covering changes to rustc_codegen_llvm currently under review. They are especially proud of getting a detailed LLVM-IR reproducer from a Rust developer for an Enzyme core issue, which will help with debugging. On the GPU side, ZuseZ4 is taking advantage of recent LLVM updates to rustc that enable more GPU/offloading work. ZuseZ4 also had a talk about "When unsafe code is slow - Automatic Differentiation in Rust" accepted for the upcoming LLVM dev meeting, where they'll present benchmarks and analysis comparing Rust-Enzyme to the C++ Enzyme frontend.*

> ### Extend pubgrub to match cargo's dependency resolution (#110)

Author: ```suggestion
### Extend pubgrub to match cargo's dependency resolution (tracked in [#110])

[#110]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/110
```
